README.md, before:

# Treet

Comparisons and transformation between trees of files and JSON blobs

The "JSON blobs" that are supported are not unlimited in structure, but must define:

* hashes, where are the values are either {hashes where the values are all scalars} or {arrays of hashes where the values are all scalars}
* or arrays of hashes as described above.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'treet'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install treet

## Usage - Command Line

    treet expand [path] [jsonfile]
    treet explode [jsonfile] [rootdir]
    treet import [rootdir] [xrefkey]

## Usage - API

    require 'treet'

    hash = Treet::Hash.new(jsonfile)
    repo = Treet::Repo.new(directory)
    farm = Treet::Farm.new(rootdir, :xref => 'label')

    hash = repo.to_hash
    repo = hash.to_repo(root)
    hash = farm.export

    Treet.init(jsonfile, root) # when jsonfile contains an array which is exploded to multiple files

## Concepts

A *repo* is a directory that contains other files & directories. Any text files in this tree structure must contain JSON-formatted data.

A *farm* is a directory containing one or more repos. When a farm is exported to JSON, each record is augmented with an xref value that contains the root filename of that repo.

For example:

    farm = Treet::Farm.new(rootdir, :xref => 'keycode')
    puts farm.export

should produce something like:

    {
      "subdir1": {
        "field": "value"
      },
      "subdir2": {
        "field": "value",
        "field2": "value2"
      },
      "xref": {
        "keycode": "repo-dir-name"
      }
    }

## Structures

All the nodes at the top level are mapped to subdirectories.

At the second level, arrays are converted to subdirectories named '0', '1', '2' etc. except that *for comparison purposes the order is ignored*.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

## TODO

* Enforce limitation on structure depth (top-level elements can contain flat hashes or arrays, nothing else)
* refac: move diff stuff from hash.rb to Treet::Diff class, to encapsulate the structure of a diff (array of arrays); create methods for hunting for special stuff in a diff
* Check all exceptions for explicit classes

Commit message:

use digest to generate filenames for array members

README.md, after:

# Treet

Comparisons and transformation between trees of files and JSON blobs

The "JSON blobs" that are supported are not unlimited in structure, but must define:

* hashes, where are the values are either {hashes where the values are all scalars} or {arrays of hashes where the values are all scalars}
* or arrays of hashes as described above.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'treet'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install treet

## Usage - Command Line

    treet expand [path] [jsonfile]
    treet explode [jsonfile] [rootdir]
    treet import [rootdir] [xrefkey]

## Usage - API

    require 'treet'

    hash = Treet::Hash.new(jsonfile)
    repo = Treet::Repo.new(directory)
    farm = Treet::Farm.new(rootdir, :xref => 'label')

    hash = repo.to_hash
    repo = hash.to_repo(root)
    hash = farm.export

    Treet.init(jsonfile, root) # when jsonfile contains an array which is exploded to multiple files

## Concepts

A *repo* is a directory that contains other files & directories. Any text files in this tree structure must contain JSON-formatted data.

A *farm* is a directory containing one or more repos. When a farm is exported to JSON, each record is augmented with an xref value that contains the root filename of that repo.

For example:

    farm = Treet::Farm.new(rootdir, :xref => 'keycode')
    puts farm.export

should produce something like:

    {
      "subdir1": {
        "field": "value"
      },
      "subdir2": {
        "field": "value",
        "field2": "value2"
      },
      "xref": {
        "keycode": "repo-dir-name"
      }
    }

## Structures

All the nodes at the top level are mapped to subdirectories.

At the second level, arrays elements are converted to individual subdirectories. Subdirectories are
named with unique digest values computed from the data contents. This means that duplicate entries
are not allowed.

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Added some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

## TODO

* Enforce limitation on structure depth (top-level elements can contain flat hashes or arrays, nothing else)
* refac: move diff stuff from hash.rb to Treet::Diff class, to encapsulate the structure of a diff (array of arrays); create methods for hunting for special stuff in a diff
* Check all exceptions for explicit classes
